me/resume.md, before:

Nathaniel Louis Tisuela
============
Email: ntisuela@uci.edu
Tel: (916)-601-5371
Web: http://tisuela.com



## SKILLS

  - OO Languages: Python Java C++ C 
  - Web Development: GraphQL REST Flask FastAPI Tomcat Express.js JQuery HTML CSS 
  - Scripting: Powershell Javascript 
  - Databases: MongoDB SQL Firebase 

## EMPLOYMENT

### *Computer Network Technician*, [Advanced Power and Energy Program](http://apep.uci.edu) (2018-10 — Present)

Maintained, troubleshooted, and deployed over 100 machines.
  - Inspected and repaired XML documents to recover research, saving 3 weeks of work for students
  - Developed powershell scripts to create technical reports and deploy for over 100 machines. This automation makes weekly tasks 3 times faster.
  - Authored easy-to-follow guides to teach new softwares to over 100 users.
  - Debugged Python software to resume monitoring of utilities in dozens of on-campus facilities.

### *IT Assistant*, Lee Starloop IT (2017-10 — 2018-10)

IT support to offer, deploy, and troubleshoot software/systems for various businesses.
  - Conducted On-site and remote support for over 6 companies.
  - Listened to problems and recommended software solutions for over 3 companies. Provided training afterwards.
  - Authored written and verbal communication to troubleshoot issues with software and hardware for dozens of users.


## PROJECTS

### *Creator*, [CourseCake](https://docs.coursecake.tisuela.com) (2020-07 — Present)

A Web and Python API for course discovery across universities.
Created a Web/Python API for developing course discovery apps.
  - Recruited and directed collaboration with other student developers from 3 other universities.

  - Launched CourseCake to become the most active cross-campus API supporting GraphQL and REST endpoints, cataloguing thousands of classes.

  - Publicized CourseCake through easy-to-understand and interactive documentation, making CourseCake a teachable tool.

  - Developed sensible schemas to model course discovery based on existing course discovery tools.


### *Developer*, [PeterPortal API](https://github.com/icssc-projects/peterportal-public-api) (2020-09 — Present)

UC Irvine course discovery Web API
Collaborating with a team of 6 developers to make this tool available for students at UCI.
  - Identified SQL vulnerabilities.

  - Proposed and implemented GraphQL, which simplifies 5 REST endpoints into 1 endpoint, making complex queries up to 500% more efficient.


### *Co-Creator*, [FabFlix](https://github.com/nananananate/fabflix) (2020-09 — Present)

Proof-of-concept movie rental service
Demonstrated Full-Stack development in this proof-of-concept movie rental service
  - Developed master-slave architecture to effectively load balance over 100 users simultameously renting movies

  - Deployed app onto GCP and AWS hosting services

  - Implemented a search engine which efficiently returns movies within seconds




## EDUCATION

### UC Irvine (2017-12 — 2021-06)

B.S. in Computer Science



## AFFILIATION

### *President*, [Acts College Ministry](https://campusgroups.uci.edu/actscollege) (2019-09 — Present)

Delegated event planning and led weekly meetings as first president of Acts @ UCI.
  - With the help of the board, Acts saw membership increase by 200%.
  - Conducted migration to remote meetings and activities due to COVID-19 (maintained majority member retention) through close teamwork with the board and sister clubs.
  - Designed a new website and established presence on UCI's online system, seeing over 70 student engagements in 2 days during a virtual fair.
  - Coordinated large group events with a team of 6 members, averaging 2 large group events a month both before and after COVID-19

Commit message:

added smoothie genie, fixed typo

me/resume.md, after:

Nathaniel Louis Tisuela
============
Email: ntisuela@uci.edu
Tel: (916)-601-5371
Web: http://tisuela.com



## SKILLS

  - OO Languages: Python Java C++ C 
  - Web Development: GraphQL REST Flask FastAPI Tomcat Express.js JQuery HTML CSS 
  - Scripting: Powershell Javascript 
  - Databases: MongoDB SQL Firebase 

## EMPLOYMENT

### *Computer Network Technician*, [Advanced Power and Energy Program](http://apep.uci.edu) (2018-10 — Present)

Maintained, troubleshooted, and deployed over 100 machines.
  - Inspected and repaired XML documents to recover research, saving 3 weeks of work for students
  - Developed powershell scripts to create technical reports and deploy for over 100 machines. This automation makes weekly tasks 3 times faster.
  - Authored easy-to-follow guides to teach new softwares to over 100 users.
  - Debugged Python software to resume monitoring of utilities in dozens of on-campus facilities.

### *IT Assistant*, Lee Starloop IT (2017-10 — 2018-10)

IT support to offer, deploy, and troubleshoot software/systems for various businesses.
  - Conducted On-site and remote support for over 6 companies.
  - Listened to problems and recommended software solutions for over 3 companies. Provided training afterwards.
  - Authored written and verbal communication to troubleshoot issues with software and hardware for dozens of users.


## PROJECTS

### *Creator*, [CourseCake](https://docs.coursecake.tisuela.com) (2020-07 — Present)

A Web and Python API for course discovery across universities.
Created a Web/Python API for developing course discovery apps.
  - Recruited and directed collaboration with other student developers from 3 other universities.

  - Launched CourseCake to become the most active cross-campus API supporting GraphQL and REST endpoints, cataloguing thousands of classes.

  - Publicized CourseCake through easy-to-understand and interactive documentation, making CourseCake a teachable tool.

  - Developed sensible schemas to model course discovery based on existing course discovery tools.


### *Developer*, [PeterPortal API](https://github.com/icssc-projects/peterportal-public-api) (2020-09 — Present)

UC Irvine course discovery Web API
Collaborating with a team of 6 developers to make this tool available for students at UCI.
  - Identified SQL vulnerabilities.

  - Proposed and implemented GraphQL, which simplifies 5 REST endpoints into 1 endpoint, making complex queries up to 500% more efficient.


### *Co-Creator*, [FabFlix](https://github.com/nananananate/fabflix) (2020-01 — 2020-03)

Proof-of-concept movie rental service
Demonstrated Full-Stack development in this proof-of-concept movie rental service
  - Developed master-slave architecture to effectively load balance over 100 users simultameously renting movies

  - Deployed app onto GCP and AWS hosting services

  - Implemented a search engine which efficiently returns movies within seconds


### *Developer*, [Smoothie Genie](https://github.com/nananananate/smoothiegenie) (2020-01 — 2020-03)

Smoothie Recommendation IOS App
Developed an iOS app that tracks user nutrition and suggests smoothies
  - Compiled our nutrtion database (Firebase) through popular nutrition REST APIs

  - Actualized dynamic UI for food information

  - Implemented tracking of food consumtion/nutrtion




## EDUCATION

### UC Irvine (2017-12 — 2021-06)

B.S. in Computer Science



## AFFILIATION

### *President*, [Acts College Ministry](https://campusgroups.uci.edu/actscollege) (2019-09 — Present)

Delegated event planning and led weekly meetings as first president of Acts @ UCI.
  - With the help of the board, Acts saw membership increase by 200%.
  - Conducted migration to remote meetings and activities due to COVID-19 (maintained majority member retention) through close teamwork with the board and sister clubs.
  - Designed a new website and established presence on UCI's online system, seeing over 70 student engagements in 2 days during a virtual fair.
  - Coordinated large group events with a team of 6 members, averaging 2 large group events a month both before and after COVID-19
